WDA-1890 WebRTC demo article (#420)
wazo-platform/wazo-platform.org: content/blog/webrtc-demo.md

Title: Creating our WebRTC demo
Date: 2021-10-29 16:30:00
Author: Manon Gerray
Category: Wazo Platform
Tags: wazo platform, webrtc, front-end
Slug: creating-our-webrtc-demo
Status: published

## Introduction

Hello everyone! Six months ago I started a one year work/study training program at Wazo as a front-end developer. Wazo has a huge development framework to get used to, and what is better than a concrete project to learn the Wazo SDK? 

> That is how I have been assigned the Web RTC demonstration project, which will be useful to anyone wondering what we are able to do with the Wazo SDK. The main goals I had when I took over the project were the following : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is how I have been assigned to the Web RTC demonstration project, which will be useful to anyone wondering what we are able to do with the Wazo SDK. The main goals I had when I took over the project were the following : 
```

Reviewer 2: `Web RTC` => `WebRTC`

* Totally redesign the application to improve user experience
* Set up phone & video call, transfer & indirect transfer
* Being able to call another number while already on call & switch between interlocutors

> ## Launching the demo at home

Reviewer 2: All title in english should have uppercase letters for words > 3 letters:
`Launching the Demo at Home`

If you want to take a closer look at the code and the demo itself, you can go and set it up with these commands: 
```
apt install wazo-plugin-cli
wazo-plugind-cli -c 'install git https://github.com/wazo-platform/wazo-webrtc-demo'
```

> Otherwise, you can clone the following repository : [wazo-webrtc-demo](https://github.com/wazo-platform/wazo-webrtc-demo) and follow the instructions in the README file on the master branch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, you can clone the following repository : [wazo-webrtc-demo](https://github.com/wazo-platform/wazo-webrtc-demo) and follow the instructions in the [README.md](https://github.com/wazo-platform/wazo-webrtc-demo/blob/master/README.md). 
```

Feel free to report any bugs, I will occasionally take a look.  

> ## Redesigning the interface

Reviewer 2: `Redesigning the Interface`

I prepared some screenshots so you can notice the difference between the application before and after I redesigned it. The main styling was based on a few mock ups. You can take a look here at the home page mock up. 

![Mockup](/images/blog/webrtc-demo/mockup.png "Mock up")

> What you can’t see in the screenshots is the way the interface is moving. I decided to animate every button : when you hover them, they fill up. The same goes for the logout button : when you hover it, it spins backwards and the real logout button appears. I also looked up on the internet to find better backgrounds : a landscape at dawn for the login page, and a landscape at daylight for the rest of the application. These images are royalty-free and created by Jcomp (source: Freepik).

Reviewer: Maybe it will be better to move the copyright thing to the end of the text to avoid to break reading
I guess @sduthil will have lot of suggestion on How to :smile:

Reviewer 3: +1! My suggestion is to add the source note in a small paragraph just after the images, I did not find a better way.

Now let’s take a look at those screenshots !

![Login&Home](/images/blog/webrtc-demo/login&home.png)
![In&OnCall](/images/blog/webrtc-demo/in&oncall.png)
![Video&MultiCalls](/images/blog/webrtc-demo/video&multi.png)

In the last screenshot, you can see the multiple calls display styling. I would like to dig deeper into this feature, and take a look at the code behind it. 

> ## Zoom on the multiple calls display

Reviewer 2: `Zoom on Multiple Calls Display`

First, let’s go into the `dialer.js` file. This file contains every function that will build our dialer (from dialing to video calling and receiving calls). On top of this file, we create an empty object : `sessions`, which is a Wazo object you can use to store your call sessions. On the other hand, `currentSession` is initialized and will be used later. 

```js

>   const sessions = {};

Reviewer 2: No need to indent you code with 2 spaces in a code section

  let currentSession;
```

> Now let’s study the `initializeWebRtc` function. In the Wazo SDK you have a bunch of useful functions to create a Web RTC application. You set up all of the events and write the names of the functions you’ll be using for these interactions (from line 9 to 17).

Reviewer 2: `from line` => `from lines`

> But the interesting part for the multiple calls handler is in the `Wazo.Phone.ON_REINVITE` event. We set up the `callSession` variable on the corresponding session id (we’re looking for it into our sessions object).

Reviewer 2: The update of the `realDisplayName` is useful for transfer, not multiple call

Author: I may have misinterpreted, I'm correcting that right away

```js
  const initializeWebRtc = () => {
    Wazo.Phone.connect({
      media: {
        audio: true,
        video: true,
      },
    });

    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_INCOMING, openIncomingCallModal);
    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_ACCEPTED, onCallAccepted);
    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_FAILED, onCallFailed);
    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_ENDED, onCallEnded);
    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_HELD, onSessionUpdate);
    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_RESUMED, onSessionUpdate);
    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_MUTED, onSessionUpdate);
    Wazo.Phone.on(Wazo.Phone.ON_CALL_UNMUTED, onSessionUpdate);
    Wazo.Phone.on(
      Wazo.Phone.ON_REINVITE,
      (session, request, updatedCalleeName) => {
        const callSession = sessions[session.id];
        if (callSession) {
          currentSession.realDisplayName = updatedCalleeName;

          onSessionUpdate(currentSession);
        }
      },
    );
  }
```

The `updateScenes` function is called every time something is changed in our 
scene. A scene is a call session : the interlocutor name, the buttons, etc… 

> The commented part is not relevant, so let’s take a look at what is happening from line 9 to 21. We are looking into the `sessions` object and for each session we are fetching : 

Reviewer 2: It's not relevant to tell that is not relevant.

_But my comment is maybe not relevant._

Author: I guess I wanted to use the word "relevant" but yes it's not relevant 😂

* The corresponding session id
* The session’s associated number

We set up `currentSession` on the `callSession` id if the session is active (we’re on call with this session’s number). 

```js
  const updateScenes = status => {
    const noActiveSession = !Object.keys(sessions).length;

>     $('#scenes').html('');

Reviewer 2: You can explain that we're using jQuery for simplicity, to not overload the demo with a fancy framework.

Author: Now I realize I didn't write about the languages used, I will add that !

    $('#calls-handler').html('');

    ///[...]
    
    Object.keys(sessions).forEach(sessionId => {
      const callSession = sessions[sessionId];
      const newScene = addScene(callSession, callSession.cameraEnabled);
      const isActive = currentSession.is(callSession);
      const label = getNumber(callSession);

      if (!isActive) {
        newScene.hide();
      }

      const $bouton = $('#calls-handler').append(`<button type="button" data-sessionid="${sessionId}" class="btn switch-btn ${isActive ? 'active' : ''}">${label}</button>`);
      $bouton.click(switchCall);

    })
  }
```

We also add a button corresponding to each session inside our calls handler HTML container (we will take a look at it later). This button calls an event named `switchCall`, let’s study it next.

```js
  const switchCall = event => {
    event.stopImmediatePropagation();

    const sessionId = $(event.target).attr('data-sessionid');
    const callSession = sessions[sessionId];
    

>     if (currentSession.is(callSession)) {

Reviewer 2: By not showing the button for the active call, this check would be avoided.
But it's an improvement of the demo.

      console.log('active call, no switching');
      return;
    }

    console.log(`attempting to resume callSession "${getNumber(callSession)}"`);
    unhold(callSession);
    currentSession = callSession;
    updateScenes();
  }
```

This function enables switching sessions on click : the `sessionId` is set to the event target, so we can define the `callSession` on this new session. If the current session is identical to the call session we just registered, no switching will occur. 

> If they’re not the same, the current session becomes the call session, and we can resume the call session. (The current session is put on hold when we accept a call if a current session is existing, in an `accept` function). 

Reviewer 2: Yes but accept is not called when you switch session by calling `unhold`

As you can see in the next code sample, the HTML code is as simple as that. I chose Bootstrap to create a group of buttons with an `active` property used in the  updateScenes function we studied earlier. In this same function, the container is filled thanks to the loop on the `sessions`. 

```html
  <div id="calls-handler" class="btn-group-vertical"></div>
```

> Finally, here is how the calls handler was designed. It's displayed in a corner, on top of our call scene. For the hanfler buttons I used the `transition` property to animate them, and set up the active styling on something different so we can distinguish which interlocutor we’re on call with. 

Reviewer 2: `hanfler` => `handler`

```css
  #calls-handler {
    position: absolute;
    left: 1rem;
    top: 5rem;
    z-index: 10;
  }
  .switch-btn {
    border: 1px solid #98c451;
    color: #98c451;
    box-shadow: inset 0px 0px 0px 0px #98c451;
    transition: box-shadow 0.5s, color 0.3s;
  }

  .switch-btn:hover {
    color: rgb(46, 44, 41);
    box-shadow: inset 0px 50px 0px 0px #98c451;
    transition: box-shadow 0.5s, color 0.3s;
  }

  .active {
    background: #98c451;
    color: rgb(46, 44, 41);
  }
```

> ## Challenge completed?

Reviewer 2: `Challenge Completed?`
